>> David Khourshid: I wanted to show you
one more really, really cool thing and
this is definitely,
it was an extra credit item, but
I don't expect you to build it out.
So, normalization solution.
And it goes to the original principle of
events are the actual source of truth.
And so let's say, like you see over here
we have these two grayed out buttons.
Over here doing undo redo for text is
easy because it is just a text area.
You already have the browser's built in.
Command or control Z command or control,
Whatever the other one is,
I'm blinking or control Y axis.
It depends,
there's different key mappings for redo.
But the idea is that when you're working
in an app where you have to make lots of
changes, it actually is a pretty
common request to say, hey,
we do want to represent undos and redos.
And so by representing or by having
events and events driven architecture,
instead of just updating states, you
actually sort of get that almost for free.
So I wanted to demonstrate that just by
showing you first the implementation and
then how it looks.
So in this reducer I actually
have two extra events.
Over here I have undo and redo.
And I also have a couple of
extra fields in this date.
I have the events, so we're keeping
track of which events occurred.
And also undos, which events were undone.
So without changing too much of the actual
data structure inside the reducer,
when my action is undo, imagine that
we have done a bunch of things here.
We entered the destination name,
like Timbuktu,
and added a few to do items over here.
You could see that each
one of these is an event.
We created a destination, we created a to
do, and then we created another to do.
So what would undoing be?
Undoing.
Since we know that we're going to reach
the exact same state if we replay all of
those events, undoing is just replaying
all of those events minus the last one.
Now, in reality, doing undos and redos is
a little bit more complicated than that.
But just for basic purposes,
replaying all of the events up
until the last one is
more than sufficient.
So if we go to solution over here,
we can see that when we undo,
we're replaying all those events and
we have built in undo functionality.
So I'm going to undo again.
And redos works similarly.
So whenever we undo an event,
that event goes into an undo array or
a stack and then when we redo,
we are just popping from that stack and
then replaying just that event.
So we already have the state for
n minus 1 events.
So we just replay that event and
that's essentially a redo.
So we could basically redo and yeah,
then we could rebuild
everything just like that.
And so that's why I really like events,
because they contain all that extra data
that allows us to do things like undo,
redo, makes it easier to debug and
things like that.
>> Speaker 2: Could we have a recursive
reference to the previous state?
And when we undo, do we have to check
does state equal the previous state?
>> David Khourshid: Could we have
a recursive and can do state equals.
State equals state previous.
So that's another thing about events.
Events are tiny.
Imagine that you're
building this to do list.
You have 3, 4, 5, 6 to dos.
And so you add them all up,
it becomes a lot larger and
you're having to keep track
of these huge objects and
there's a chance that you could run out
of memory pretty fast if you do that.
And so events are smaller and
you're going to
get to a consistent state when
you replay those events anyway.
So, yeah,
I would say that definitely is possible.
And you could also, instead of keeping
track of the entire previous date,
you could keep track of state's diffs.
But at that point, a state diff
is essentially just a raw event.
It's telling you something happened.
The state changed.
We don't know why it changed.
So it's just a very basic kind
of event at that point anyway.